if you're looking for any plugins
presets extensions to save you time and
create awesome videos my digital asset
store is at the top of the description
what's going on guys today we're talking
about secrets for creating awesome 3D
music videos so to understand what we're
trying to do let's take a look at some
great visuals that react with the audio
and keyword there react with the audio
this entire video is going to be about
the audio visual relationship
translating the sound you hear into
colors you see motion you see and other
things along that line so the first one
here this is a concert Visual and the
thing I want to get across it doesn't
matter what genre you're doing it's
always going to keep the same core
values for making everything react now
unfortunately I can't play the audio
with this visual because of copyright
issues but anytime you hear a bass
strike you're seeing this 3D visualizer
slam on the ground anytime you hear some
snares you're seeing these lasers
they're relating different movements to
different sounds the relating different
flashing and different colors to
different sounds that's all about
creating that audio visual relationship
and whenever you do that in a music
video or a music video visualizer you
can create some really cool looking
stuff so another example Edward of we've
talked about him a bunch on the channel
again I can't play the audio but every
time you hear a bass strike you're
seeing that flashing you're seeing
you're seeing the flashing mouth you're
seeing different things happening that
relate to the audio and bring that to
life so that should give you a good idea
I'm going to leave a link to both of
these below if you want to check them
out we're going to hop into blender now
and I'm gonna show you some of the tools
behind creating some of these looks
alright guys so here we are within
blender I'm gonna go ahead and just
speed run a basic music visualizer setup
of course you can design it however
you'd like so I'm going to click shift a
I'm going to add in a plane
and let's open up this here and we're
just going to give it a bit more size
we can tab in edit mode right click and
subdivide it
give it some Cuts Like a grid and then
we can go to our modifiers and add in a
wireframe modifier so we have this
little grid background give it some
thickness
and rotate it 90 degrees like that so
simple little background I'm also going
to bring in here
just a simple little obj model that is
from my 3D starter pack so these are all
basically like music videoesque 3D
models you don't need these you can
download things for free if you want
just check out my other videos if you're
interested in some designing tips for
this but again extremely simple you see
this set up in a bunch of different
dubstep Style music videos
where we have our backgrounds and we
have some sort of subject like this so
some tips for making this sort of thing
react to music the first thing we can do
we can think about how we want this to
react to the audio we want it to rotate
whenever the beat hits do we want it to
jump up and down with scale do we want
it to flash a certain color so let's
start simple
let's just click over to our object
properties and we have our location our
rotation our scale so let's make the
scale react with the audio so I'm going
to hover over the scale at the very
beginning here and I'm just going to
click I on my keyboard that will insert
a keyframe and if we switch from the
timeline view to the graph editor now
you can see these lines here and you see
our XY our X scale our y scale and our Z
scale so if we don't have the keyframes
there and this is very important we take
that away you'll see everything
disappears from our graph editor so if
you're not seeing anything it's because
you don't have that starting keyframe
for the value you're trying to link to
the audio so let's bring that back and
hover over hover over scale click I and
it should keyframe all three of our
scale values so now what we're going to
do is we're going to do the standard way
to link our audio and that is by
selecting one of these
or all of them go to key you want to go
up to bake sound to F curves so this
will convert any Sound audio file that
you have here into keyframes or Curves
as you can see
so every time this goes up it means the
volume is getting more loud very simple
way of having it react to the audio
now that's the beginner method this is
our secret tricks we've already talked
about how to do this let's go a lot more
in depth so first of all the only other
thing you should know here if you want
to hear the audio while you're doing
this very important so you can actually
see how things are syncing up go to the
video sequencer
go to the beginning click add and then
you can load in your audio files
straight from here as well so now you
can hear this is just some royalty-free
music hopefully it doesn't Echo from my
mic
so we know the basics of linking some
sort of value to audio now let's take it
one step further I'm going to go ahead
and right click and remove the keyframes
off of our scale so this will go back to
normal let's try that exact same thing
with color so we're going to go and
create a new material and let's put it
on the grid to start
so we'll go to our materials here we'll
create new
and I'm going to double click and name
this audio reacting color so click
change from our timeline to our Shader
editor so we can take a look at this
material now we want to keep this very
simple we don't need the principal bsdf
let's just click shift a and we're going
to search for an emission
so in a mission
you can connect that to surface
and then if we bump this up we'll have
some strength and you're not seeing
anything because we're just in the
standard viewport shading let's change
to rendered mode and you can see this is
how you get that nice glowing color
so we'll put that up to 100 you're not
actually seeing any glow like this
because you need to enable that in the
render settings so in render properties
Bloom there you go
so we're glowing now let's say we want
to link this to the audio we wanted to
change the strength with the audio so
that it'll flash with the song we want
it to change colors with the audio
to be able to do that first let's add in
a little way to change colors we're
gonna go in here we're going to click
shift a and we're going to add in a
color ramp node
probably one of the most important nodes
in blender in my opinion
we're going to connect the color to the
color of the emission and now this will
drive the color that we're going for so
what you can do here is you can choose
the colors that you'd like to set for
your visualizer so say if the music is
very quiet you want it to be something
like blue
we can change this to light blue if you
want it to be super loud we can make it
red
so whenever it starts out all calm and
smooth it's going to be very blue in the
middle it's going to be this nice purple
because it's Blended between the two and
as it gets super crazy and Bassy
at your B traps it's going to flash red
and of course you guys can add in other
things here maybe you don't want uh
purple to be your midpoint maybe you can
add in like some rainbow colors
and really customize this to your liking
but that's the basic principle of it so
once you have something like that set up
it's really just using those exact same
steps to be able to link it up to the
audio so if we want to link audio to
color you want to keyframe the factor
here so hover over Factor click I at the
start and keyframe one and now let's go
to our graph editor
now if for any reason you're not seeing
that you may need to uncheck the only
show selected
and now you can see this popping up
this is from what we selected in our
Shader node tree and here is what we
just set a keyframe for the factor of
our color ramp and we can do the same
thing he bake sound to F curves
there we go
so it's very calm at the start
[Applause]
what we can do is let's give ourselves
some more time here
I'm just going to click that open to
drag in a new window so we can see this
Of All Times make it a bit easier let's
go to the parts of the song that start
to get loud here's our beat drop
[Music]
[Applause]
so pretty cool and you have full control
over what colors you'd like for
different parts of the song it's all
being driven by this value here you can
think of this bottom line here as zero
anything above zero is going to affect
the value so the higher this line goes
up on the graph the more this factor is
going to be bumped up so you see right
now it's at 0.18 if we go to where it's
spiked up here it's at 1.594 and that's
in the range of our deeper colors here
but you can take this one step even
further what if you want things to flash
in and out
and you can think of this like zero and
one values so if we look at this graph
here again if you think of this blue
line here this is zero everything above
that is one so at all times this line is
above zero so it's always going to be
lit up and have color but if you want
things to flash with the song you need
to lower this line below zero so that
only the Peaks are sticking up and to do
that we use the envelope modifier
so let's get rid of all this craziness
we're going to right click join areas
here's our graph editor now what you
want to do is Click N it'll pop open
this little side window and you can go
over to the modifiers and we want to add
in an envelope modifier so this allows
you to change around these lines
so we can click add control point right
here at the very beginning and now from
here you can take the reference this
essentially moves the entire thing up
and down you can take the Min and the
max which I'm not going to confuse you
guys at first let's just talk about
reference so add control point I'm going
to take the reference and just move it
so that the so that these Peaks are sort
of like this so now instead of
everything being above zero it's going
to sometimes dip to zero sometimes go to
one so you see this is zero this is one
again this is your bottom line
now right now we're not controlling the
actual glow value we're still
controlling just the factor of the color
lamp so nothing's happening right now so
we need to go back here
let's go back to our Shader editor and
this is only for controlling the flash
you see this is zero one zero one so
this is controlling the flashing or the
power the strength of the emission
we're going to do the same thing just go
to on your timeline the beginning
and then Shader editor hover over click
I to set your keyframe
so back in our graph editor
now you can see we have the emission
strength that's what we want to be
working with let's sync it to the music
so key big sound F curves and load in
our sound file
so let's do that exact same thing
add in an envelope modifier control
point so we can move it and then
reference
and there we go let's take a look at
what it's given us
[Music]
so we're starting to get that where it's
sort of starting it's starting out at
zero completely blacked out and it's
bumping up and Fading Into the color
it's just not bright enough now there's
two ways you could go about changing
this you guys can either change the Min
and Max values here
to kind make these Peaks larger or an
easier way is to just go back to the
Shader editor and what we can do is just
amplify this using something like a math
node so we'll take the strength here
just click and drag out a wire and
search for math we're going to want to
change this from add to multiply so now
essentially what it's going to do
it's going to take the beginning value
here which is what we're going to
keyframe and it's going to multiply it
by whatever this value is here so if
this is our standard we can set this to
something like 10
and then we can do the same thing we can
click I to keyframe this value and Link
that up with our music
so back to our graph editor again if
you're not seeing that on check here
and here it is so here's the math value
big sound F curves load that in
[Music]
the things are a lot brighter as we go
through and even when we go in add in
the envelope like we did before
that reference so we get the flash
now we can control the brightness at the
maximum Peak for this part so if we just
open up so again
Shader editor if this isn't bright
enough for you just crank up that value
25 whatever you want
and now as you guys see we have that
flashing in and out
that we're looking for it really makes
it come alive when it comes to reacting
play for you guys
and especially in the B traps
now you're gonna see there's one issue
here and that is whenever it does get to
those High values for the B trap it's
going so far away from this line that
it's no longer dipping in and out and
again if it's not dipping below this
blue line This zero line it's not going
to be flashing from zero into one so
again this is below the line so it's
black this is above so it's colored so
it needs to always be dipping below and
above that line so if you want the parts
with the B drop obviously it's louder so
the beat so every all these are going to
be up here
you need to do that same thing with
reference and to do that without messing
up anything you've done here you need to
add another envelope so what we do is we
take our first envelope and you're going
to see this restrict frame range
check that on we want this to stop right
around here 6 30. there we go now
whenever it comes to our beat drop let's
go ahead and just copy this and then
paste it
and then we'll just change around the
restrict frame rate so we want this to
start at 6 30.
and then end or ever maybe like around
1000 or 950 and then all you do is take
the reference and you lower it
foreign
[Music]
so pretty cool I think that the flashing
in and out just gives it just makes it
feel a lot more alive again here's the
difference this is without the flashing
in and out
[Music]
so that's just our color this is with
the flashing in and out
[Music]
again you can control the strength
multiplier there if you'd like
but yeah that's your Basics so just keep
going through uh different parts of the
songs adding in those envelopes with the
restricted frame rates if you would like
to do that you guys can take this audio
reacting material here that we've just
created and apply this to anything so if
you want the eyes to match up here
tab in edit mode
and I'll just select I so control l
shift click Ctrl l
go to materials here we'll create a new
material
and we'll just drop down select audio
reacting color
assign
there you go you guys don't have to sync
it up with audio again ready just like
that
[Music]
so that's part one I want to talk about
some other cool things that you can do
with the advanced baking so before so
this is our normal bake key bake sound F
curves but there are some more options
in here which allow you to do some very
specific things which can really be
awesome for music video visualizers so
let's talk about that all right so let's
add in something new here we're going to
go to file import I'm going to bring in
another object from my music video pack
same pack where I got this head bus you
can find that on my website if you're
interested got a little tunnel piece
again something that's extremely simple
that you guys can find on the internet
turbo squid whatever now what I'm going
to do is just extend this tunnel and we
can do that very easily by going to our
modifiers and adding in an array
modifier so right now it is going across
the x-axis this count is going to add in
how many you'd like so let's go and
change this we want it to go on the
z-axis
but Z to negative one okay and now we
just need to get rid of this gapping so
we'll open up the constant offset
and we'll just move over the Z and that
looks fine so now every time we bump up
the counts it's going to keep extending
out this tunnel and also be aware here
the more you do this the more computer
intensive it is 10 is fine but if you're
going for like 1 000 things could get a
little bit laggy but this should work
for us now before we do anything crazy
here if you even want to use that tip we
did with the eyes where we already have
that audio reactive color you can so if
I click tab again now that we have that
material we can now make any part of
this tunnel react to the audio with
color so we can select any of these
pipes click control l
ctrl-click control l so once you've done
that materials
new
audio reacting and assign
so our Y location here that's moving
towards our camera like this we're going
to go ahead and keyframe that so at the
beginning we'll click I on our Y
location and we'll do similar to what we
did before so graph editor find what's
selected here
which is our object transforms here's
our Y location let's go key big sound F
curves now this time what we're going to
do is we're going to check on additive
and it says the amplitudes of the curve
are summarized so check that on
so we're gonna have a very different
line here instead of going horizontally
here it's going to be more of a vertical
curve
as you see because we link this up with
the Y location
the higher this value the more the Y is
going to be pushed back so pay attention
to the Y right here this is 16.
[Applause]
and you see the louder the music is the
more it pushes it back so if we go to
where the beat drop is you're going to
see this is going to shove all the way
back
now right now it's going in the wrong
direction so let's add an envelope and
we're going to add a control point and
we're just going to invert this so
instead of the minimum being negative
one maximum being one we're going to put
this at one and this at negative one
so now you see it's moving towards the
camera and you can control if you'd like
the power of this so how fast this is
going to accelerate and you can do that
by taking this value on the right here
so this is our maximum just making that
a lot more steep so you see I'm
controlling the steepness we don't want
this to pop back up like that we want to
control and make it a steep line
so now you guys are going to see it's
moving a lot faster on the y-axis
because we Crank that up and once we get
to our B trap this is just going to fly
past
[Applause]
[Music]
pretty cool
so
what you guys can do from here first off
you can do this to any other value so if
you want y rotation
you can do that just make sure your
origin is set correctly
that's the origin is where your rotate
Center Point is going to be so right now
you can see our Origins right there that
little orange dot we can go up to object
origin to Geometry
now that's more in the center so we can
test with our y rotation looking good
and you can do the exact same thing so
click I on your y now you're going to
see all those rotation values and you
can just key
big sound F curves
keep the additive on there you go you
can even copy and paste the modifier so
let's just click here copy it and paste
the envelope that we already worked on
and you can see a little bit too crazy
with the maximum but this is a good
visualization of controlling the
velocity with the audio
[Applause]
we don't want this to be 10 let's maybe
set this to one
if that's still too much again with Spin
and maybe you may want to downplay it so
you don't get nauseated
[Music]
you see what I mean we can link it to
the spin we can link it to the Y
location you can literally link it to
anything this is just basic location
stuff but you can link this to particle
effects physics effects anything so from
here you just make a camera you know
something like this again save before
you do mess around with this because
it's going to be generating a lot of
stuff there you go once you're ready you
can apply this if you really want to
instance it whatever
the base here just some metallic some
reflections
and you can lower the roughness here if
you really want to see those reflections
of light
[Applause]
[Music]
now the final thing I'd like to show you
is frequency control so let's go shift a
here and we'll add in an icosphere and
let's move this over so if you want this
to only react to certain frequencies for
example the base of a song which you
guys can do first of all let's make this
sort of like audio reactor visualizory
by adding in some modifiers so we're
going to add in first of all a displace
and from the displays here you can see
the more you crank the value the more
this changes and the shape that it
changes is going to be dependent on this
texture so you can click new to create a
new texture
we'll go to the texture tab here texture
properties and then you can choose the
type so there's clouds you know there's
a bunch of different little presets here
for the pattern you can add a
subdivision surface you can apply these
you're not a wireframe if you wanted to
get all crazy organic style and then we
do the same that we've been doing to
sync it to the music so we'll take the
strength of our displace click I to
insert that keyframe and you should now
see it in your graph editor bake sound F
curves and this time we're going to take
the highest frequency here so usually
this is maxed out if you wanted to be
around the Bassy range you want to go
250 or under so we'll click bake sound
and now at the beginning when there's no
hard bass you shouldn't see this moving
that much you see everything's reacting
there's still movement and velocity and
everything else
[Music]
so yeah just some examples on how you
can control audio how you can transform
audio into motion or audio into color or
into light flickering on and off there's
a ton of different things you guys can
do and when the whole name of the game
is matching the visual to the audio it
doesn't matter if you're making dubstep
house music where you see a ton of this
stuff or even a rap music video anytime
you want to match the music with the
visual use these tools and you can
create some really amazing looking
effects that really match the vibe that
you're going for so that's about it guys
the only bonus I would say is if there
is a specific thing like a really big
base hit or any other specific part of
the song you can kind of make
corresponding camera movements to match
in with that so for example if I grab my
camera here maybe there's a big base hit
and you can see if there is because you
can just look at your visualizer and
keyframe here move to where there's that
big base hit change around the value
and there you go you have some cool
little camera effects that match in with
that audio and you guys can go back to
your graph editor
and here's those keyframes so I think
mine was y rotation yep there it is you
guys can click T and you can change
these around to different sort of
presets back bounce
elastic so yeah you have some options
for some cool things you can do in
camera as well and that really will give
you like the cherry on top whenever
you're making these visualizers you can
do the same with zooming in so right
here see there's a big hit we'll take
our location y
keyframe it and find that in the graph
editor so here we go location y here's
the keyframe
this is where the bump is so we're going
to want to Crank That forward
keyframe
move a bit and then you can just control
C control V to paste that keyframe so
you see we've created a little camera
bump that's what it looks like just kind
of emphasizes that a bit more and again
that's why I say this is the cherry on
top and then you can select those
keyframes click T and then give it any
sort of dynamic effect or interpolation
you know all right guys so that's about
it thank you so much for watching let me
know in the comments down below anything
you'd like to see next for me I
apologize for the two week break we
haven't been sitting around doing
nothing during that time I'm working on
a giant 3D After Effects cohesive
plug-in the biggest plug-in in Project
I've worked on I really want to make
this something that can provide value to
you guys even if you've never touched a
3D software before other than that guys
as always thank you so much for watching
thank you so much for supporting and
I'll see you guys
[Music]
foreign